I graduated high school that summer and wanted to start regular pioneering.
That's my dad, Grayson.
Dad was having car trouble that morning and needed a ride to work, so I gave him one.
Okay, my car was a little messy and smelly.
I mean, it was winter and my car's pretty old anyway, so I bother.
When I get a new car, then I'll keep it clean.
But he was making a big deal out of nothing.
That morning was not good.
I thought it was over, but later that evening, dad brought it up again.
But this time, it went better.
He showed me a picture of his first car.
It looked pretty old, too.
He said that while our home or car may not be fancy or luxurious,
it should be as clean and presentable as circumstances allow.
I still didn't see what the big deal was.
Then he explained that Jehovah is a clean guy.
And from ancient times, it has always required that his people be a clean people.
Under the mosaic law that Jehovah gave to Israel, cleanness and worship were inseparable.
It specified that priests were required to wash their hands and feet before offering sacrifices to Jehovah.
While in an unclean state, an Israelite could not have any part in worship, or it could mean death.
I said, I'm not an Israelite, and we're not under the mosaic law anymore.
He said, true, but it gives us insight into Jehovah's thinking.
The law emphasized that cleanness was required of all those who worship him.
And as Malachi 3.6 tells us, Jehovah has not changed.
Then he said something that really stuck with me.
Besides, it's not all about us.
Didn't he give me a scripture to look up?
It was 2 Corinthians 6, 3 and 4.
And no way are we giving any cause for stumbling so that no fault may be found with our ministry,
but in every way we recommend ourselves as God's ministers.
I realized that things like our appearance, our homes, and our cars...
These can all be a solid witness to Jehovah in themselves.
It made sense to me now.
It's not all about us. I knew what I had to do.
Not only did I clean my car, but later that year I was able to turn my application for pioneering.
And I'm glad for the lesson I learned from my dad.
It's not all about us.
Even in little ways, we can reflect favorably on the God we love.